Another one came from Zach Leatherman
who works on 11ty, details-utils.
If you've ever used details element,
who's used the details element?
It's relatively new.
Okay, yeah, so
if you've ever used details element,
it's maybe the coolest new
interactive element in HTML.
It's like a free drop-down disclosure.
You could do it on a forum like you
want to get birthday reminders,
and you click it and you drop down,
show them the birthday form or whatever.
It's very cool.
But there's a few problems, or
just it lacks some features, or
maybe it's more apt to say I
want to use this everywhere.
I wanna use this in
navigations drop-down menus.
I wanna use it everywhere,
but there's a few features.
Adrian Roselli, yeah,
this post sort of shook my brain,
but Adrian Roselli is
a accessibility expert.
And he had this post called
Details/Summary Are Not [insert
control here].
And in the post, he says,
they are not an accordion.
And I was like, wait, what?
[LAUGH] Why is it not an accordion?
And I wrote a whole blog post on that.
It's not a tab set.
And I'm like, well, I may not guess it.
It's not menu navigation.
Wait a minute, what?
And he goes on.
He kinda points out, hey, it's kinda just
a bad pattern just from accessibility.
But purely, they lack the ability
to hit Esc on close, right?
So if you have a details element and
I hit Esc, nothing happens.
But if we go to our details-utils,
I can wrap it in the details-utils here.
And then I can add some behaviors
like close to click outside, right?
So if I click outside,
I have to get my browser real big.
Let me go embiggen this again.
So if I do this and I click outside,
do I have to go bigger?
No, let's zoom out, there,
I'm bigger, I'm big enough.
[LAUGH] I finally made it.
So you can close to click
outside if it's over 48.
And then another feature has close on Esc.
So if I open my demo and
I hit Esc, it closes.
Tada, I now, according to Adrian's post,
am safe to use it as a dropdown menu in my
main navigation or something like that.
That's pretty cool.
Zero lines of JavaScript for me.
Zach wrote some, but
it's probably very minimal JavaScript.
Animation, I don't know if you've ever
tried to animate the details element, but
it's not fun cuz you have
to measure the height and
then do an animation between a known
height and an unknown height.
The default details kinda looks like,
all right, let's see if I can save this.
And the default details kinda
looks like this, on, off, on, off.
Not very cool,
doesn't pass to your designer sensibility.
So you put animate on there,
and guess what?
Now, we are cool, and
our boss will give us a raise
because we are wowing with surprise and
delight.
All by just wrapping a details element in
sort of the utility element outside of it.